# EdPike365.com

This blog started with [Gatsby's basic blog starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog). I wanted to start with something really simple and customize it manually to better learn Gatsby, React, GraphyQL, etc.

## Customizations

### Custom Build and Publish Workflow

I create a few top level core pages using .js files in the normal way. These are pages that need data or have forms.

I create all other core pages with MD because they were mostly text and I appreciate the convenience of MD. This required customizing the page building code so that they would not end up as blog entries. Once I implement MDX, I may convert some of the .js pages into MDX.

All of the blogs entries are MD files, using the original Gatsby core. HOWEVER, I added a publishing mechanism. It uses .env.development and .env.production file variables to control which articles get shown on the web site. The per file publishing state is based on a headmatter string.

In actual production, the env vars are handled by the hosting company (Netlify at the moment).

### Custom Modules

I've heavily customized the basic core and use 2 NPM modules that I wrote specifically for Gatsby.

- [gatsby-source-build-date](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-source-build-date/?=gatsby-source-build)
- [gatsby-head-style-boss](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-head-style-boss/?=gatsby-head)

## Mobile-First Repsonsive Design

I designed the site to be useful on the smallest phones, then added functionality as the size grows. I use a top layer LayoutGrid with nested components. The top nav changes a lot as the width changes and is easily customizable.

I use the emotion plugin for CSS execpt when I need to insert some custom layout in MD.

## Fancy Nav Bars, Back To Top Button

I wrote a custom left nav bar with collapsing folders. I could have used some libraries but they come with a lot of baggage and this way I learned a lot more about React and modern CSS, like pseudo selectors. I wanted to animate the sliding in and out, but I also wanted to use CSS only and I could not get the animation to work correctly (yet).

The top nav bar has an animated logo and a custom transition that happens when you move from the largest mobile width to the lowest web browser width.

The floating "back to top" button shows up when scroll to the bottom of a large page.

## Future Looking

- User login: User signup, signin, SSO
- Secure site admin area: manage users, email list
- Secure user area: manage profile
- Email List form with db backend and email notification to site admin
  - The standard "form mail" functionality offered by Netlify, etc, is host specific but I'm doing this to learn some third party db provider, like Contentful.  
  - That still leaves the email notification code for when someone signs up. I haven't looked into "the JAMstack way" for that.
- User page comments
- TS
- Auto build testing
- Auto web UI testing (probably Selenium)

## Odds and Ends

[NPM notes to myself](./README-NPM.md)

[Original Readme Generated By Gatsby](./README-ORIGINAL.md)
